---
author: Ian
comments: true
date: 2007-07-15 22:57:00
layout: post
slug: bournemouth-meet-organisation-thread
title: Bournemouth Meet Organisation Thread
wordpress_id: 581
categories:
- Personal
---

<font size="4">Attention Soton Kiddies<br /><font size="3">and those generally close to Bournemouth!<br /><br />This is the Ultimate<br /><font size="6">Bournemouth Meet Organisation Thread<br /><font size="3">of Ultimate Destiny!<br />Not affiliated with any orgies, destinial or otherwise.<br /><br /><u><b>WHAT?<br /></b></u>Three days of sun, sea, sand, and suffering*, in the wondrous seaside destination that is <strike>rainy</strike> sunny Bournemouth!&nbsp; There'll be poi and staff fun, barbecues on the beach, fireworks, food, booze, and other good things!<br /><br />* optional<br /><br /><u><b>WHERE?<br /></b></u>Eric's and my flat in Bournemouth.&nbsp; <a href="http://maps.google.co.uk/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&amp;hl=en&amp;om=1&amp;msa=0&amp;msid=116509304024152404618.00043619e17aae03ab55c&amp;ll=50.725888,-1.867719&amp;spn=0.006765,0.018539&amp;t=h&amp;z=16">This Google Map route</a> should show you the way from the station, if you haven't been before, and <a href="http://maps.google.co.uk/maps/ms?msa=0&amp;ll=50.723267,-1.874317&amp;spn=0.003382,0.00927&amp;t=h&amp;z=17&amp;om=1&amp;msid=116509304024152404618.0004361a05185d658a294">this one</a> should get you the last few hundred metres by car.<br /><br /><u><b>WHEN?</b></u><br /><b>The last weekend in July, that's Friday 27th to Sunday 29th.</b>&nbsp; Coming and going pretty much any time during those three days is fine!<br /><br />Car parking could be an issue - technically, cars can't stay parked in the visitors section for the *entirety* of Saturday.&nbsp; I can redirect you to a nearby place to park for a while if you don't feel lucky.&nbsp; Also, we should only really take up one visitor's space, so if you can work it out so that only one car turns up that'd be awesome.&nbsp; We're only 15 minutes' walk from the station!<br /><br /><u><b>WHO?<br /></b></u>Soton kiddies and anyone around the Bournemouth area.&nbsp; Overnight arrangements are going to be the trickiest - our flat can sleep maybe 5 in some degree of comfort (if you find the floor comfortable) or up to 12 if you're really friendly and don't mind sleeping in the bedroom or hallway.&nbsp; We have two sleeping bags and  

 a duvet we can lend out, but after that you're on your own.<br /><br /><b>Please reserve your luxury 6-foot by 3-foot floor space in the comments!<br /><br /><font color="#ff0000">CURRENT KNOWN ATTENDEES:&nbsp; </font></b><font color="#ff0000">Ian (All), Eric (All), Mark (Sat-Sun), Chantelle (Sat-Sun), Ali (Sat), Nick Irish (Sat), Rhiannon (Sat), Andy (Sat), Sam (Sat-Sun), Nick Hayes (Sat-Sun), Mikael (Sat-Sun), Gemma (Sat-Sun), Hugo (Sat-Sun), Donna (All), Racheet (All)<br /><b>STAYING FRIDAY NIGHT: </b>2<br /><b>STAYING SATURDAY NIGHT: </b>8<br /></font><b><br /><u>WHY?<br /></u></b>Because I've been promising this for at least two years now.&nbsp; As we finally have our own (rented) place here, it seems like a good time!<br /><br /><u><b>WHAT TO BRING?<br /></b></u>Beach stuff for swimming / sunbathing / hiding from the sun in, sun cream, clothes, money for food/booze.&nbsp; (Special considerations for the British seaside: Umbrella, waterproofs, longjohns, wetsuit, hazmat suit.)<br /><br /><b><u>ANYTHING ELSE?<br /></u></b>I have no idea how many people are going to want to come, compared to the number of people we can host.&nbsp; So, to make sure I'm keeping tr  

ack of everyone, all the organisation is being done here.&nbsp; Please pass the link on to any of the Sotongrad lot who don't check here regularly!<br /><br /><b>If you want to come, please comment here!<br /><br /></b>Also fire away with any questions you have.&nbsp; Gogogogo<font size="4">!</font></font></font></font></font>
