---
author: Ian
comments: true
date: 2011-01-26 23:27:18
layout: post
slug: the-flow
title: The Flow
wordpress_id: 11438
categories:

- Internet
- Personal
tags:
- Code
- Flow
- Productivity
- Spaff
- Work
---

So I spent my day caffeinated up to the eyeballs, loud music playing, churning out documentation until I started spamming Twitter with all-caps weirdness and I started wanting the phrase "COFFEE FOR THE COFFEE GOD! MUGS FOR THE MUG THRONE!" emblazoned on my coffee mug and, frankly, my soul.  (Thanks [@Bobolequiff](https://twitter.com/#!/Bobolequiff/status/30230882442813440).)

[@HolyHaddock](https://twitter.com/#!/HolyHaddock/status/30280666167910401) later tweeted about his much more restful afternoon, but while I can appreciate it being nice, it just seems so much less... epic.

There's no sensation, for me, like finally achieving the hyperactive nirvana of _flow_.

It takes caffeine, of course -- four cups of strong coffee over the course of the day, each one timed to mitigate the crash from the last.  It takes music -- the kind of music that doesn't give a damn about genre or technique, but is brutally designed to hot-weld your eardrums to your adrenal gland with lightning at 150 beats per minute.  It takes focus -- a single task to be done, no distractions except for the continual [background process](http://ianrenton.com/blog/multitasking-the-new-doing-things) of the internet's pulse.

It just accelerates, never stopping.  Athletes talk about "hitting the wall", you reach a point where it hurts so much you just can't find a way to carry on, until at last you crack it.  But there's none of that, because it's all in your mind and your mind is hot-wired.  It's a single white-hot moment that lasts for hours but feels like microseconds, where ideas escape your brain at a billion degrees Kelvin and etch themselves into reality.

Sure, I'll probably explode in a shower of caffeine and adrenaline when I'm about 30.  But for now, screw restful afternoons.  Eyes wide open, brain set to overdrive.  It's like feeling alive, only _more so_.
